

[big]*i.     Abstract*

The Indexed 3D Scene Layer (I3S) format is an open 3D content delivery
format used to rapidly stream and distribute large volumes of 3D GIS
data to mobile, web and desktop clients. I3S content can be shared
across enterprise systems using both physical and cloud servers.

A single I3S data set, referred to as a Scene Layer, is a container for
arbitrarily large amounts of heterogeneously distributed 3D geographic
data. Scene Layers are designed to be used in mobile, desktop, and
server-based workflows and can be accessed over the web or as local
files.

The delivery format and persistence model for Scene Layers, referred to
as Indexed 3d Scene Layer (I3S) and Scene Layer Package (SLPK)
respectively, are specified in detail in this OGC Community Standard.
Both formats are encoded using JSON and binary ArrayBuffers (ECMAScript
2015). I3S is designed to be cloud, web and mobile friendly. I3S is
based on JSON, REST and modern web standards and is easy to handle,
efficiently parse and render by Web and Mobile Clients. I3S is designed
to stream large 3D datasets and is designed for performance and
scalability. I3S is designed to support 3D geospatial content and
supports the requisite coordinate reference systems and height models in
conjunction with a rich set of layer types.

The open community GitHub version of this standard is
https://github.com/Esri/i3s-spec[here].

[big]*ii.   Source of this document*

The majority of the content in this OGC document is a direct copy of the
content contained at https://github.com/Esri/i3s-spec . No normative
changes have been made to the content. This OGC document does contain
content not in source Esri GitHub repository. Specifically, while
derived from content on the https://github.com/Esri/i3s-spec[Esri I3S
repository], the Abstract, Keywords, Preface, Submitting Organizations,
Endorsers, Terms and Definitions, and References sections and Annex B
(Bibliography) in this document are not found on the
https://github.com/Esri/i3s-spec[Esri I3S repository]. The Terms and
Definitions and References sections may be added into the Esri community
GitHub repository in the future.

Please note that the Esri I3S Github repository includes a ``Building
Scene Layer (e.g. comprehensive building model including building
components)''. This layer type is not included in this OGC Community
Standard but may be proposed for inclusion in a future version.

[big]*iii. Validity of content*

The Submission Team has reviewed and certified that the ``snapshot''
content in this Community Standard is true and accurate. <>

[big]*iv. Keywords*

The following are keywords to be used by search engines and document
catalogues.

ogcdoc, OGC document, i3s, 3d, point clouds, visualization, scene, scene
layer, slpk

[big]*vi. Preface*

I3S originated from investigations into technologies for rapidly
streaming and distributing large volumes of 3D content across enterprise
systems that may consist of server components, cloud hosted components,
and a variety of client software from desktop to web and mobile
applications.

Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this
document may be the subject of patent rights. The Open Geospatial
Consortium shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such
patent rights.

Recipients of this document are requested to submit, with their
comments, notification of any relevant patent claims or other
intellectual property rights of which they may be aware that might be
infringed by any implementation of the standard set forth in this
document, and to provide supporting documentation.

[big]*iv. Submitting organizations*

The following organizations submitted this Document to the Open
Geospatial Consortium (OGC):

Organization name(s)

Esri, Inc.

[big]*v. Supporting Organizations*

The following organization support the submission of the I3S Community
Standard version 1.2 to the OGC:

[cols=",",options="header",]
|===
|Name |Affiliation
|Keith Ryden |Esri
|Carl Reed |Carl Reed & Associates
|Jerome Jacovella-St-Louis |Ecere
|Gordon Plunkett |Esri Canada
|Vijay Kumar |Esri India Technologies
|Anneley Hadland  | Helyx Secure Information Systems Ltd
|Howard Butler | Hobu Inc.
|Volker Coors |Hochschule für Technik Stuttgart
|Clemens Portele | Interactive Instruments
|Jeongeun (Bomi) Lee | KoreaLand & Geospatial InformatiX Corporation
|Cesar Suarez, Hermann Brassard | Presagis
| Dean Hintz |Safe Software
| Ib Green | Unfolded
|===

Note on supporting organizations. As per the OGC Technical Committee
Policies and Procedures:

* Any http://www.opengeospatial.org/standards/community[Community
Standard] submission requires that three or more distinct Member
organizations support the submission. In addition to the submission team
lead, each other organization supporting the submission shall provide
the TCC with an email stating their organization’s support of the
submission.

Please note that all questions and/or comments regarding this OGC
Community Standard should be submitted to the OGC via the comment
submission form. <<insert link here when the OGC actually has one!>>

[big]*vi. Future Work* The I3S community anticipates that revisions to this
Community Standard will be required to prescribe content appropriate to
meet new use cases. These use cases may arise from either (or both) the
external user and developer community or from OGC review and comments.
Further, future revisions will be driven by any submitted change
requests that document community uses cases and requirements.

Currently, the following layer type may be considered for future
inclusion in the I3S standard (future work):

* Building Scene Layer (e.g. comprehensive building model including
building components)

== Table of Contents

link:#introduction[Introduction to Scene Layers]
link:#structure[Organization and Structure]  link:#Tree[Tree Structure]
  link:#Nodes[Nodes]    link:#Feature[Feature]
   link:#NodeResources[Node resources]     link:#Geometry[Geometry]
    link:#Attributes[Attributes]     link:#Textures[Textures]
    link:#NodeResources1.6[Node resources for I3S 1.6 and earlier]
  link:#NodePages[Node Page]  link:#statistics[Statistics]
 link:#CRS[Coordinate Reference Systems]  link:#heightModels[Height
Models] link:#i3s-services[I3S Services]
link:#i3s-scene-layer-packages[I3S Formats]  link:#SLPK[Scene Layer
Packages]   link:#1.7-SLPK-Structure[1.7 SLPK Structure]
  link:#1.6-SLPK-Structure[1.6 SLPK Structure]
  link:#metadata[Metadata]

== Introduction to Scene Layers 

Scene Layers provide a structured way for clients to store and visualize
large volumes of 3D data. I3S organizes information into node
hierarchies that contain features with geometry, textures and
attributes.

The current scene layer profile types are:

* link:../docs/1.7/3Dobject_ReadMe.md[3D Object] (e.g. 3D models in
various formats)
* link:../docs/1.7/IntegratedMesh_ReadMe.md[Integrated Mesh] - An
integrated surface that may include vegetation, buildings and roads.
* link:../docs/1.6/Point_ReadMe.md[Point] - A collection of point data,
like individual trees in a forest.
* link:../docs/2.0/pcsl_ReadMe.md[Point Cloud] - A volumetric collection
of point data, like lidar data.

I3S is designed to support large datasets of 3D content ranging from
local to global extent containing detailed features. Clients can
visualize scene layers by taking advantage of the multi-LoD (level of
detail) representation and symbology to create the right user experience
for visualizing the 3D content. The I3S format continues to evolve and
new functionality continues to be added.

I3S is organized as link:#Nodes[nodes], which are structured into
link:#NodePages[node pages]. The node page includes the bounding volume,
child reference, count and the link:LevelofDetail.md[level of detail
selection]. Nodes contain all the information to describe features
including link:#Geometry[geometry], link:#Attributes[attributes] and
link:#textures[textures]. Scene Layers can be created in cartesian 3D or
in global 3D world link:#CRS[coordinate reference systems]. I3S Scene
Layers can be delivered to web, mobile and desktop clients. Most users
will interact with Scene Layers using applications with cloud or
server-based information. In these cases, the scene layer content is on
the server and is provided to clients through a RESTful interface. These
web addressable resources provide access to the scene layer, nodes, and
associated resources. Alternatively, a scene layer can be delivered as a
Scene Layer Package. This is a single file that includes the complete
node tree and all necessary resources in an archive.

== Organization and Structure 

=== Tree Structure 

To ensure high performance when visualizing 3D content, data are
spatially grouped into link:#Nodes[nodes]. The grouping process is
repeated recursively to create a tree of nodes. The spatial extent of a
given node encompasses all its children to create a bounding volume
hierarchy. Both spatially regular (e.g. quadtree) as well as spatially
irregular (e.g. R-tree) organizations of data are supported.

The bounding volume is defined either as minimum bounding sphere (MBS)
or oriented bounding box (OBB) representation.

image:../docs/img/MBS_Example.png[Minimum bounding sphere..]

_3D objects enclosed in minimum bounding spheres._

image:../docs/img/OBB_Example.png[Oriented bounding box.]

_3D objects enclosed in the smallest bounding box._

OBB is the more optimal representation and implementers are encouraged
to output node bounding volumes in OBB format. Point cloud profile
supports OBB representation only.

In order to provide a scalable representation of the original data,
parent nodes contain a simplified representation of their children
creating link:LevelofDetail.md[Level of Details].

image:../docs/img/BoundingVolumeHierarchy.png[Create bounding volume
hierarchy.]

_Schematic view of spatially distributed data and recursive grouping of
nodes into a bounding volume hierarchy._

image:../docs/img/BoundingVolumeHierarchyTree.png[Bounding volume
hierarchy represented as a tree of nodes.]

_Example of bounding volume hierarchy represented as a tree of nodes._

=== Nodes 

In a Scene Layer, data are spatially grouped into nodes. The nodes
contain node resources for the bounding volume. Each node has a unique
identifier, which allows clients to efficiently locate and load the
resources.

==== Feature 

A feature represents a real-world object within a node. For example, an
individual point in a point scene layer or a building within a 3D object
scene layer. Node resources such as geometry buffer and attributes can
belong to a feature and can be accessed by an object-ID.

When the same feature is included in more than one node at different
link:LevelofDetail.md[Levels of Detail], the corresponding attributes
for the feature are included as attribute resources in each node. This
redundancy in attribute storage allows each node to be rendered
independently of other nodes. The following scene layer types support
features:

[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|===
|Feature |Integrated Mesh |3D Object |Points |Point Clouds
|support |  |image:images/checkmark.png[yes]
|image:images/checkmark.png[yes] | 
|===

==== Node resources 

In addition to a bounding volume, each node contains references to node
resources. The type of resource available, such as geometry buffer,
texture and attribute, depends on the original data and layer type.
Clients must use the resource identifiers (id) written in each node to
access the resources. While content creators may choose to match a
resource id with the node id this is not required by the I3S
specification. As such, clients should not make this assumption.

[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|===
|Node Resources |Integrated Mesh |3D Object |Points |Point Clouds
|geometry buffer |image:images/checkmark.png[yes]
|image:images/checkmark.png[yes] |  |image:images/checkmark.png[yes]

|attribute |  |image:images/checkmark.png[yes]
|image:images/checkmark.png[yes] |image:images/checkmark.png[yes]

|texture |image:images/checkmark.png[yes]
|image:images/checkmark.png[yes] |  | 
|===

_Node resource for backward compatibility with 1.6_

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|===
|Node Resources |Integrated Mesh |3D Object
|sharedResources |image:images/checkmark.png[yes]
|image:images/checkmark.png[yes]

|3dNodeIndexDocument |image:images/checkmark.png[yes]
|image:images/checkmark.png[yes]
|===

_Note: All binary data is stored in little endian._

===== Geometry 

Depending on the scene layer type and the version of I3S, different
geometry representations are used. For example, an integrated mesh scene
layer geometry data includes all vertex attributes, feature counts, and
mesh segmentation.

In I3S version 1.7 3D Objects and Integrated Mesh scene layer are using
link:../docs/1.7/geometryBuffer.cmn.md[geometryBuffer] with draco
compression to describe the geometry. Previous versions of 3D Object and
Integrated Mesh scene layers (1.6 and earlier) define geometry in the
link:../docs/1.6/defaultGeometrySchema.cmn.md[defaultGeometrySchema].
The expected triangle/face winding order in all geometry resources is
counterclockwise.

Point and Point cloud layers model geometries as points. Point scene
layer define the geometry in
link:../docs/1.6/featureData.cmn.md[featureData]. For a Point Cloud
Scene Layer the binary
link:../docs/2.0/defaultGeometrySchema.pcsl.md%22[geometry] is lepcc-xyz
compressed.

===== Attributes 

Attribute data for all features in a node are represented as discrete,
per field resource called attribute. Attributes are used to visualize or
query features within a scene layer. For example, each attribute
resource, such as land use codes, can be assigned to a unique color to
visualize the different types of land use in the scene layer. The number
of attribute resources corresponds to the number of fields in the scene
layer.

Attributes values are stored in the attribute resource in the same order
as feature geometries are in the geometry buffer. This allows clients to
render each node efficiently through direct array access instead of
object-id based attribute lookups.

Metadata on each attribute resource is made available to clients via the
scene service layer. When attributes are present within the scene layer,
additional metadata in the link:../docs/1.7/field.cmn.md[fields] array
and link:../docs/1.7/attributeStorageInfo.cmn.md[attributeStorageInfo]
array further describe each attribute resource. The
link:../docs/2.0/attributeInfo.pcsl.md[attributeInfo] of the Point Cloud
scene layer contains the description of the attributes.

===== Textures 

The texture resource contains texture image files. Textures are stored
as a binary resource. Individual textures should be aggregated into
texture atlases (An image containing a collection of smaller images.).
Client capabilities for handling complex UV cases may vary, so texture
coordinates are used. Texture coordinates do not take atlas regions into
account directly. The client is expected to use the sub-image region
values and the texture coordinates to best handle repeating textures in
atlases.

For more details, see the link:../docs/1.7/texture.cmn.md[texture] and
link:../docs/1.7/textureSetDefinition.cmn.md[textureSetDefinition].

==== Node resources for I3S 1.6 and earlier 

To ensure backward compatibility with 1.6 clients, a 1.7 scene layer
needs to also include the
link:../docs/1.7/3DNodeIndexDocument.cmn.md[3dNodeIndexDocument]
resource as well as the
link:../docs/1.7/sharedResource.cmn.md[sharedResources] available for
any node. SharedResource includes the material definition of the node.

=== Node Page 

In version 1.6 and earlier, each node is stored individually as a
3DNodeIndexDocument, causing the tree traversal performance to be
negatively impacted due to the large number of small resource requests
required. Version 1.7 packs many nodes into a single resource called a
node page. These node pages are created by representing the tree as a
flat array of nodes where internal nodes reference their children by
their array indices.

I3S creators are free to use any ordering (e.g. breadth first, depth
first) of the nodes into a flat array of nodes. In version 1.7, the ID
for a node is an integer that represents the index of the node within
this flattened array.

image:../docs/img/BoundingVolumeHierarchyTree.png[bounding volume
hierarchy tree] image:../docs/img/NodePageArray.png[node page]

_Example of breadth first ordering of nodes in a flat array. Children
nodes are addressed by their index in the array._

=== Statistics 

link:../docs/1.7/stats.cmn.md[Statistics] are used by clients to define
symbology without having to read all data. For example, if you want to
define a unique value symbology, statistics are used to collect all
unique values within the layer and calculate the number of features that
are included in a unique value. Beside symbology, statistics are also
used to filter data.

=== Coordinate Reference Systems 

The I3S specification supports specifying the Coordinate Reference
System (CRS) as a Well Known Text, as defined in clause 6.4 in OGC
Simple Features
http://portal.opengeospatial.org/files/?artifact_id=13227[99-036/ISO
19125] standard. I3S also supports specifying CRS in the WKT standard
http://docs.opengeospatial.org/is/12-063r5/12-063r5.html[CRS/ISO
19162:2015], Geographic information – Well-known text representation of
coordinate reference systems, which provided an update to the original
WKT representation. The two standards are referred to as WKT1 and WKT2
respectively.

In I3S implementation the CRS may be represented using either WKT1 or
WKT2. While WKT1 has been in use for many years, WKT1 has been
superseded by WKT2. Although implementations of OGC standards using WKT2
are not yet widely available, the guidance from the OGC/ISO community is
to implement WKT2.

WKT1 does not support explicit definition of axis order. Therefore, I3S
implementers need to note for their implementations if they support WKT1
only or both (as WKT2 requires continued support of WKT1). In addition,
please note that not all ArcGIS clients support WKT2 yet.

The Coordinate Reference System (CRS) of the Indexed 3D Scene Layer
should be selected with the following considerations:

* Minimize the need for re-projection on the client side.
* Render in both geographic and projected coordinate reference systems.
* Support data with a global extent.
* Support local and global data with high positional accuracy.

All I3S profiles support writing 3D content in two modes: _global_ and
_local_. In global mode, only the geographic CRS WGS84, as identified by
its EPSG code 4326, and GCS China Geodetic Coordinate System 2000, as
identified by its EPSG code 4490, are supported for both index and
vertex positions. It is represented using longitude, latitude and
elevation. In local mode, all other geodetic CRS, including projected
coordinate systems, are allowed.

In both modes, node index and position vertex must have the same CRS. In
addition, all vertex positions are specified as an _offset_ from a
node’s Minimum Bounding Volume (MBV) center. The MBV could be specified
as a Minimum Bounding Sphere (MBS) or as an Oriented Bounding Box (OBB).

All vertex positions SHALL be specified using a geodetic CRS (including
Cartesian coordinate reference systems), where x,y,z axes are all in
same unit, and with a per-node offset (from the center point of the
node’s minimum bounding sphere) for all vertex positions.

Axis Order: Axis order explicitly defined by the CRS SHALL be used when
present. When the axis order is not defined by the CRS, Easting,
Northing, Height axis order SHALL be used. The Height axis SHALL always
point upwards towards the sky (away from the center of the earth).

As a result, for an I3S layer to be in a _global_ mode the following
requirements must be met:

The location of all vertex positions and index-related data structures,
such as the nodes minimum bounding volume, are specified using the
geographic CRS WGS84 or CGCS 2000, where:

* The only supported CRS in this mode is EPSG code, 4326 and 4490.
* X and Y coordinate bounds of the layer and XY components of the vertex
position are specified in decimal degrees.
* Elevation (the z component of the vertex position) is specified in
meters.
* The Minimum Bounding Volume (MBV) radius unit (for MBS) or halfSize
unit (for OBB) is specified in meters.

For an I3S layer to be in a _local_ mode the following requirements must
be met:

All vertex positions are specified using geodetic CRS, identified by an
EPSG code. Any CRS with an EPSG code _other_ than 4326 or 4490 will be
treated as in a local mode.

* All three components of a vertex position (XYZ) and the Minimum
Bounding Volume (MBV) radius (for MBS) or halfSize (for OBB) need to be
in the same unit.

The link:../docs/1.7/spatialReference.cmn.md[spatial reference] object
is common to all I3S profile types.

=== Height Models 

I3S supports either ellipsoidal (height defined with respect to a
reference ellipsoid) or gravity-related (height defined with respect to
a reference geoid) vertical coordinate systems. This allows I3S to be
applied across a diverse range of fields and applications.

At version 1.5, I3S added support for vertical coordinate systems. The
Well Known Text (WKT) representation of the Coordinate Reference System
now includes the vertical coordinate system used by the layer. The
link:../docs/1.7/spatialReference.cmn.md[spatial reference] object also
includes a Well-known ID (WKID) and a Vertical Coordinate System
Well-known ID (VcsWKID). The client can consume any of these properties
to designate the height model.

The heightModelInfo, included in the 3DSceneLayerInfo resource, is used
by clients to determine if the layer’s height model is orthometric or
gravity-related.

== I3S Services 

A RESTful API allows access to I3S scene layers. Each scene layer
profile has different components and features. For details on the API of
a specific profile and version, refer to the individual README
documents.

Version 1.7 support for link:../docs/1.7/3Dobject_ReadMe.md[3D Objects]
and link:../docs/1.7/IntegratedMesh_ReadMe.md[Integrated Mesh].

Version 1.6 support for link:../docs/1.6/3Dobject_ReadMe.md[3D Objects],
link:../docs/1.6/IntegratedMesh_ReadMe.md[Integrated Mesh], and
link:../docs/1.6/Point_ReadMe.md[Point].

Version 2.0 support for link:../docs/2.0/pcsl_ReadMe.md[Point Cloud].

== I3S Formats 

=== Scene Layer Packages 

Scene Layer Package (SLPK) consolidates an I3S layer into a single file.
SLPKs are designed to be directly consumed by applications.

An SLPK is a https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zip_(file_format)[zip]
archive containing compressed files and resources. The compression level
for a SLPK file is not compressed. For example, if using 7-zip to create
a scene layer package the compression level is `STORE`. The individual
resources within the SLPK may be compressed using the compression method
`GZIP`. For example, `.json.gz`. The exception is for jpg and png files.
We recommend compressing all resources.

Both 64-bit and 32-bit zip archives are supported. 64-bit is required
for datasets larger than 2GB.

Please note that this method is slightly different than a typical zip
archive. In general, when a file is added to a zip archive, the new file
is individually compressed, and the overall archive is compressed. *That
is not the case for SLPK.* When adding files to an SLPK, the new file is
compressed, but the overall archive remains uncompressed and is archived
using compression level not compressed (`STORE`).

This is an example of a geometry resource opened in 7-zip. Notice that
both the Size and the Packed Size are equal. The method is `STORE`.

image:images/slpk_archive_store.PNG[Example of compressed geometry
resource with size and method] _Compressed geometry resource with size
and method._

*File Extensions*

SLPK require file extensions to determine the file type.

Here are a few examples of SLPK file extensions:

* .jpg
* .png
* .bin.dds
* .json

*Hash*

In I3S verison 1.7, an https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MD5[MD5]
link:../docs/1.7/slpk_hashtable.cmn.md[hash] is used to improve loading
time. The hash must be the last item at the end of the central directory
and named `@specialIndexFileHASH128@`.

==== Example 1.7 SLPK Structure Summary for 3D Objects 

....
.\example_17.slpk
    +--nodePages
    |  +--0.json.gz
    |  +-- (...)
    +--nodes
    |  +--root
    |  |  +--3dNodeIndexDocument.json.gz
    |  +--0
    |  |  +--attributes
    |  |  |  +--f_0
    |  |  |  |  +--0.bin.gz
    |  |  |  +--(...)
    |  |  +--features
    |  |  |  +-- 0.json.gz
    |  |  |  +--(...)
    |  |  +--geometries
    |  |  |  +-- 0.bin.gz
    |  |  |  +--(...)
    |  |  +--textures
    |  |  |  +--0.jpg
    |  |  |  +--0_0_1.bin.dds.gz
    |  |  |  +--(...)
    |  |  +--shared
    |  |  |  +--sharedResource.json.gz
    |  |  + 3dNodeIndexDocument.json.gz
    |  +--(...)
    +--statistics
    |  +--f_1
    |  |  +--0.json.gz
    |  +--(...)
    +--3dSceneLayer.json.gz
    +--@specialIndexFileHASH128@
....

Paths are the same as in the API, but without the `layers/0` prefix.
Exceptions are:

[width="100%",cols="37%,21%,42%",options="header",]
|===
|Resource |SLPK |Service
|Scene layer document |3dSceneLayer.json.gz |layers/0

|Legacy node resource |/nodes/4/3dNodeIndexDocument.json.gz
|layers/0/nodes/4

|Legacy shared resource |/nodes/4/shared/sharedResource.json.gz
|layers/0/nodes/4/shared
|===

#### Example 1.6 Structure Summary for 3D Objects

....
.\example_16.slpk
    +--nodes
    |  +--root
    |  |  +--3dNodeIndexDocument.json.gz
    |  +--0
    |  |  +--attributes
    |  |  |  +--f_0
    |  |  |  |  +--0.bin.gz
    |  |  |  +--(...)
    |  |  +--features
    |  |  |  +--0.json.gz
    |  |  |  +--(...)
    |  |  +--geometries
    |  |  |  +--0.bin.gz
    |  |  |  +--(...)
    |  |  +--textures
    |  |  |  +--0.jpg
    |  |  |  +--0_0_1.bin.dds.gz
    |  |  |  +--(...)
    |  |  +--shared
    |  |  |  +--sharedResource.json.gz
    |  |  +--3dNodeIndexDocument.json.gz
    |  +--0-0
    |  |  +--(...)
    |  +--0-0-0
    |  |  +--(...)
    |  +--1
    |  |  +--(...)
    |  +--1-0
    |  |  +--(...)
    |  +--1-0-0
    |  |  +--(...)
    |  +--(...)
    +--statistics
    |  +--f_1
    |  |  +--0.json.gz
    |  +-- (...)
    +--3dSceneLayer.json.gz
    +--metadata.json
....

**Metadata**

Scene layer packages (SLPK) contain metadata information regarding its
content in the metadata.json file. The following entries are required
and must be of the specified type.

[width="100%",cols="54%,46%",options="header",]
|===
|Property |Details
|folderPattern |One of \{BASIC, EXTENDED}, Default is \{BASIC}

|archiveCompressionType |One of \{STORE, DEFLATE64, [DEFLATE]},Default
is \{STORE}

|resourceCompressionType |One of \{GZIP, NONE}, Default is \{GZIP}

|I3SVersion |One of \{1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.6, 1.7, 2.0},Default is \{1.7}
(Point cloud is \{2.0})

|nodeCount |Total number of nodes in the SLPK
|===

*Example of 1.7 Metadata json*

....
.\metadata.json
{
    "folderPattern":"BASIC",
    "archiveCompressionType":"STORE",
    "resourceCompressionType":"GZIP",
    "I3SVersion":"1.7",
    "nodeCount":62
}
....

*Example of 2.0 Metadata json*

....
.\metadata.json
{
    "folderPattern":"BASIC",
    "archiveCompressionType":"STORE",
    "resourceCompressionType":"GZIP",
    "I3SVersion":"2.0",
    "nodeCount":1156
}
....
